All right, so in this lesson, we'll learn how to use our just testing library to mock out a complete
module.
Or, in other words, a complete library such as Axios.
So here's a reminder of our job listings component.
In this component, we are using the Access Library to fetch the list of 100 jobs from our mock backend
running on JSON server.
So this part is an asynchronous request to a separate service.
And it's very important in our unit test for the job listings component that we do not actually go to
this extremity when it comes to testing what the job listings component is supposed to do.
We do not want to have a second service up and running just for a test because it's going to be slow,
because it's going to create a coupling with this second service.
It just makes the test a lot more difficult to set up and diagnose, and there's ways that we can simplify
the unit test.
So we really focus on what the responsibility of job listings is.
The responsibility of job listings is to issue an API request, but we don't have to complete that whole
API request.
The test, the job listings has done its job.
Instead, we can simply assert that job listings has talked to Axios, invoked its get method and provided
the right URL.
We can then fake the actual API request so that our test acts as if it made a full API request.
But it doesn't instantaneously.
It does it in an isolated environment and it does it again without coupling it to any kind of extra
server.
So our test is small, loose, lightweight and singularly focused on the job listings component.
So the key takeaway here is we don't want to actually test the actual Axios library right here.
We just want to test the interaction with it by the job listings component.
But how can we simulate the Axios environment within a test?
Well, let me show you.
So let's begin by creating the test file for this job listings component.
So right here, I'm going to go to tests unit and this is a component and we have our job results directory
right here.
And here's where I want to create my new job listings that test that JSE test suite.
So we're going to come back to writing the actual test for the component in the next lesson.
I just want to show you some cool features on AuntJess.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to import the Axios library.
This is the exact same library that we are importing in job listings, and then immediately after I'm
going to console.log Axios and when the test runs, you're going to see what that object looks like
in my terminal.
So right here, if I expand this, you're going to see that this is the entire Axios object that we
get when we import the Axios library.
So this is the actual implementation of the library as it is built.
If you were to go, for example, to the Axios GitHub or to dive into your node modules directory and
look at the source code, it would be this exact Axios object.
Now, again, we don't care about the complexities of this Axios object.
We really just care that it has a get method right here that we can invoke.
So you may recall that earlier in the course we talked about the idea of just mock functions.
We can create them by simply just doing this just fine, which is short for function.
And this creates a mock function.
It's basically a function that can keep track of how many times it's been invoked with what arguments
it's been invoked, etc..
So wouldn't it be really cool if we could somehow take this existing access object and tell just to
mock out every available functionality within it?
Right.
We would tell just, hey, we need an object that has a get method.
That is a requirement because that is the actual public interface of the access library.
So we need a get method, but I don't want to use the real Axios implementation.
I just want you to replace the get method with the sample mock function.
And in fact just wouldn't it be great if you could just go through this entire access object and replace
every single one of these methods with your own just function.
So replace request replace get your I replace delete replace.
Get everything we see here.
Wouldn't it be great if we can just get just to automate this and so we don't have to go through manually
and you know, overwrite these properties and get into the internals of the access library.
We can just tell access to or just rather to do it for us in one line.
So let me show you how that's going to work.
It's actually one of my favorite parts of the just library right here.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to take my global just object, which is available in every just file.
And on this object we have a method called mock.
And to mock we can provide an argument of a string representing the library in a project that we would
like to mock out.
So in this case, I'd like to mock out my access library.
So I'm just going to provide a string of Axios, all right.
And I'm to save this file and take a look at what we have right here in our terminal right now.
You'll notice it's a different output.
It's going to be a little bit longer.
But as I scroll up.
You're going to see the beginning of this output and you'll notice it's basically the exact same object
that we just saw from Axios, except that Gest has automatically replaced all of its properties and
methods with its own custom functions.
So here is that request method that we were just talking about.
Here's that.
Get your I method.
Right here is delete.
We were just talking about these methods a few moments ago, but we were seeing the original Axios object
and the original methods now just has loop through all of that complexity and it has replaced that functionality
with its own mock function.
So in the test suite we can use Axios regularly.
We can still, for example, do Axios that get, which is an available method and we can invoke it just
like a regular.
Axios get method.
But keep in mind, what we're working with here is no longer the original Axios library.
It is now a marked out version of that library with fake mock functions attached in place of the original
methods.
And so if we could do this for the purposes of our test, this would be great, because now when we
mount our component, we're going to swap the real Axios with this fake Axios, and we can test the
interaction with the get method, which we're using in the real component.
But now GET is going to be a mock function that can track how many times it's been called.
So all we can do is mount the component and verify that Axios get has been called with the right API
address and we're going to successfully test the interaction of the component with our Axios library
without using the real Axios library, but rather a smaller substitute that is good enough to play that
role.
All right.
So we're going to see how we can write an appropriate test for this component in the very next lesson.